So we learned a lot about synchronous validating which means every keystroke immediately gives us back
a result or if we use @blur every time we leave this input, we immediately get back a result, we don't
need to run some async code, we don't need to reach out to a server or do some operation which takes
a bit longer.
Now you do have these operations though and a good example is reaching out to a server to check whether
an e-mail address is taken, now to create this validator we'll actually walk through two different lectures.
In the first lecture, we'll create our own validator which is super simple as you will learn, thereafter
we will learn how we can adjust this validator to run asynchronously,
so let's start with the custom validator in this lecture.
Let's say for the e-mail address, we want to check whether it's taken or not
and for that I'll create my own validator and you can of course add this validator for every control
you want.
For that I'll go to my e-mail validations rule here,
this group of rules and now you can give this any name you want, I'll name it unique.
Now such a validator in its simplest form is just a function with the function keyword or an arrow function
which automatically receives the input value passed in by vuelidate
and then you have to return true or false depending on whether you want to consider this validation as
successful or not.
So for example if I return false here, let's see what happens to the e-mail,
if I go up to my e-mail field,
I can enter whatever I want,
it's never becoming valid because my custom validator always returns false.
So this
always fails even if the other one succeed,
this one always fails,
that's of course not too useful.
Let's say we want to treat any email address as valid as long as it isn't test@test.com and we'll
in the next lecture expand this to actually have a look at the server,
which e-mail addresses we may use.
So here I will check if val is not equal to test@test.com,
so if it's not equal, this will return true and therefore validation passes,
if it is equal, this returns false and validation fails.
So if I go back, test2@test.com is good, makes it through the validation, if I remove the 2 though, it
fails.
With that we get our own custom validator, in the next lecture,
we'll now turn this into an asynchronous one.